okay folks welcome back this teachings
gonna mean specifically dealing with
essentials to trading the daily bias
okay folks we're looking at the dollar
index this is a daily chart and I want
to cover some essentials and my
understanding about how to trade daily
bias before we begin just understand
that this is not to teach you every
single day Monday through Friday of
every month what the daily buys is going
to be tomorrow I don't have that
understanding for every single pair but
I do know how to find a bias across all
the pairs so as a scalper I can excel by
looking at using some of these concepts
and obviously things that I teach in my
tutorials both free and in my paid
mentorship so I'm gonna cover one or two
things here but I think are paramount
that will help you at least try to get a
hold on daily bias so if I look at a
daily chart what we're trying to do is
ascertain the likelihood of it being a
up close or a down close day now there's
absolutely no guarantee of what I'm
going to tell you here being accurate so
you always have to use that as a
reminder because I'm human and you're
human too so you're gonna make mistakes
just as well as I can make a mistake and
I can be wrong so I don't want you to
take what I'm stating here as the
panacea be-all end-all to understanding
what daily biases there's a number of
things that we can do to get a better
opinion about what the daily bias will
be tomorrow or today but it doesn't
guarantee results that are going to be
positive so you always have to consider
that okay but it's certainly some things
that you can practice in a demo account
and build your understanding about daily
bias in the sandbox if you will of a
demo so I like to look for enemy a term
and short term highs and enemy in term
or short term lows and what I have here
is I have this high deleted and have
this low these highs up here this low
slow this high and this group of lows
down here okay which is just an
extension of this low back here now I
teach that and when the market is not in
a trending model and/or a parabolic move
up or down the markets going to work off
of traditional support resistance theory
now the problem is is which support
resistance do we use so I look for the
key turning points they're real obvious
ones now you can use these short-term
ones in here but the main one is here
because the mark the market moved from
that low all the way up to this high
consolidated tribal I'm trying to go
higher field went lower constant support
here bound resistance pound support
tribe one more time failure to market
moved higher
so we're looking at the ebb and flow of
how the market moves from a point of
overbought to oversold to equilibrium
and consolidation and a news move that
would take us to an overbought or
oversold condition that's a range bound
market which is where we're seeing the
dollar trading right now now has a
slightly bullish bias to it and has had
that for a couple weeks now but for now
I just want to just cover how I
interpret the first thing I look for is
are we coming off of a run above an old
high that may see it trade back below it
or are we trading below an old low that
may see it trade back above it what I do
is I look for these intermediate term
price points and swing highs and swing
lows on the daily just see if we have
moved above an old high because we could
very easily reject that and trade lower
or if we trade below an old low we could
see it come back above it and stay
inside the previous determined range so
if we look for candles or daily ranges
that run above an old high
chances are we could see it continue
going higher but we also have to be
mindful that we could see an eventual
turnaround or reversal and it could
start to go back below that old high
because this could be very easily seen
as a false break same way with the old
lows as we see here the market does in
fact trade through it tries to make a
lower load couldn't do it failed again
and then started to trade higher so we
have to have these intermediate term
swing points on our daily chart because
they're going to be potential reversal
points failing to follow through after
breaking an old high or breaking
resistance or failing to make a lower
low and trend lower after breaking below
old support so when the markets not
trending this is the scenario that it
will typically trade within which is a
classic support resistance theory the
problem with support resistance theory
is which high in which low in which
resistance in which support do you use
so I start with these swing points like
this or turning points where it could
potentially be reversals you can see how
price eventually does trade above this
high here finds a measure of resistance
it consolidates so we're in a point of
equilibrium and the markets digesting
whether or not you want to stay at these
levels or trade higher or trade lower as
we see the market trades below these
lows in here can't rally above and
collapses trades below it reprice is all
the way down below an old low
and then rejects comes back into an area
of consolidation and rejects again
expansion lower finds a low cannot find
momentum through it consolidates around
it tries one more time to go lower and
trades higher every time the market
breaks a swing high
and if we look to the left of that swing
hi where's the next old
intermediate-term hi this one here so
there's nothing for it to potentially
reverse inside of until we get up to
here so if we're going to use simple
classic resistance and support levels we
could see that this is the one we're
gonna be looking for okay so if we're
trading around here and we're looking
here this is going to be the form of
resistance so the markets want to try to
get back up to that level
the market does in fact try to make an
attempt to do that but when we have
these ideas suggesting classic support
short-term resistance okay that's what
this whole level is here the markets try
to go through it
one more time try to get through an old
low and then trade it threw it back
above this swing high here so what I'm
going to teach you is this is what I
look for for daily bias now there's a
lot of folks on social media
that we're looking for a weaker dollar
and ignoring these types of phenomenon
but I'm going to show you here you're
gonna have that error as well but if we
know that there is a support level here
we tried several times to go below it
and then we had a swing high broken
what's the market really telling you it
wants to go higher so what's the next
level to reach for this short term
resistance level okay so we can see that
it wants to get to 90 417 that's the
high of this candle here so what do we
do at that point once we clear this high
here
what's the bias well if you look at this
little diagram I have over here this is
gonna refer to the previous day now this
could be a bullish or bearish day it
doesn't make a difference but when the
market is bullish as we've outlined it
over here we're gonna be looking for the
previous day's high to be the target and
the previous day's low to be supported
in other words there shouldn't be any
movement below the previous day's low it
should all focus on the buy side that
means reaching for the previous day's
high when the markets bearish this
scenario would be reversed we would be
looking for price having an inability to
get above the previous day's high and
seek the previous day's low
using this criteria here okay once we
broke this candles swing high here bit
daily bias on this candle and this
candle and this is a Sunday we would
look for Monday as well and then Tuesday
we would look for bullishness so if we
use this same theory we're going to draw
this particular candle right here is the
one that broke the swing high and then
we know they have a resistance level it
could probably reach four so we're going
to be looking for the next day
to trade
not to the previous day's low but to and
through previous stays high so this next
day what's the daily bias here's the
opening what's Tobias
it's gonna want to reach for this hi so
where is it wanting to go up so what are
we going to focus on previous day's love
or previous day's high create a stays
high because it's bullet just wanted to
go higher so the market trades up
creates up close day then we take this
thing thing and apply it to
good need a
okay so we have very simple approach
there's no box in the hood up here now
we have yesterday this is what this one
this candles date on December 8th this
candles last Thursday's tie which would
be 9380 market opens we're going to see
it trade through that and with the
anticipation it's going to eventually
try to reach for this daily high so when
this happens again we don't think about
the daily low from the previous day
we're focusing on the movement through
the previous day's high and/or
eventually reaching to this level here
on the daily the market closes in the
middle of the range here is Sunday's
trading then Monday the same phenomenon
you would look for the market to want to
trade through what on Monday we would
look for this previous Friday's low to
be supported and we would look for a
price to run through previous Friday's
high again this is Sunday we wouldn't
expect anything there Monday we see it
open here a little bit of movement above
it but it does in fact pierce Friday's
low and it comes back and closes where
it opens so is there any significant
change in the underlying direction no
did we trade to this high yet no so we
take that same premise
now we apply it to this candle which is
Monday of this particular week of the
recording
and we see it open here so what's the
bias we're looking for the previous
day's high why because we have yet to
trade back to this old resistance level
market opens here trades up trades
through it but look what it does it
comes right back inside the daily range
okay in the next trading session right
now at the time of this recording it's
9:26 p.m. New York time on December 12
2017 and the candle is already starting
here it opened had a little bit of
moving up and now we're moving little
bit lower so it may want to trade a
little bit higher go a little bit higher
through this old high but as we're
reaching for these any amount of term
levels on the daily chart we're
factoring in does it have enough range
to reach for it above or below and then
we take that approach and apply it
immediately to the previous day's high
and low as we have here and what you're
determining is is if we're bullish we're
gonna be focusing on the previous day's
high for momentum and more bearish when
we focus on the previous day's low for
momentum very rarely do you see both
sides of the previous day's candle
tagged or traded through if it does it's
usually indecisiveness or it's going to
be a reversal soon and they're clearing
the board on both sides of the
marketplace and when you start seeing
those types of things get prepared
because the market could be in fact
about the reverse you can see that
actually happening here previous day's
high and low here the next day it trades
through it and it's low is violated too
so we're about to see a reversal next
day reversal ok and I'll show you
another example of that see here we have
it here as well
we have a thursdays range now this low
comes in at 94 42 and alone here is 94
42 so it's equal but still very very
close to the high this is Sunday in a
Monday
nothing shown there but end up getting
of a very important hi eventually
afterwards and now this is called an
outside day when you have a previous
day's range that's violated with this is
example it to this high is 93 98 in the
low is 93 67 this candles low is 93 58
in the highest 90 99 so this is an
outside day with a down close that's
typically bullish reason why it creates
a false break above the previous day's
high and then close it on the low if
we're in a bullish market overall and
that occurs generally sends up a really
good buy scenario I've learned that from
Larry Williams and that's from like old
school stuff but you got that context
behind it can't just take a outside they
was down closing this naturally this
film is going to be a bullish today but
you can see it does in fact give a huge
opportunity be a buyer on this day and
my application of outside day is when it
does that it sets up a potential
short-term reversal what Larry Williams
brought to the table with it is it
creates a short-term oversold scenario
so it doesn't necessarily mean it's a
reversal just means it's many times a
continuation pattern
according to his definitions all right
and here's another scenario here outside
day we have the candle here the hi comes
in at ninety three twenty three and a
low is 92 eighty one the very next day
the high is taking out ninety three
twenty four the lowest 9275 so reversal
day and then we can see the market
doesn't Peck alone trade higher as a
result so you will always get the
outside day at turning points but I'd
like to look for it because it builds a
lot of confidence behind it and by using
these tools okay and when the market
also breaks more or less a swing high of
importance and we have a level that
doesn't have anything else until we get
to here the bull it's bullish okay it's
bullish avoid this whole scenario like
looking at this high to this low point
feds don't looking for optimal trade
entry you didn't sell off a lot stuff
it's all raishin and willingness to want
to go below this low multiple times and
then it broke a swing high so the
momentum is bullish and that's gonna
reach for this now if we're doing that
analysis on a daily for the dollar index
and we've arrived at a bullishness for
the dollar what does that translate for
foreign currency in terms of daily bias
it's gonna be a mirror image so if we go
to the euro dollar we can see that the
euro dollar has been bearish as we would
reasonably expect notice that every
single day the daily high is not
concerned with at all it's the previous
day's low it trades through it so now we
have a low here what's it gonna do it's
gonna want to trade to the previous
day's low it trades through it so what's
the next story line opens trades down
below the previous day's low next day
what's it gonna do it's kinda trade
through not only the previous day's low
but what's it really reaching for that
old intermediate term low on the daily
I'll give you some lipstick on the
charts you can see that framing out a
little bit
so this love here and it's price is
starting to drop down it's reaching for
this level here why because it's
basically the opposite of what we're
seeing
done here dollars reaching for this area
term hi well the euro dollar is reaching
for a mere term low each day we're
focusing on again this phenomenon here
we're focusing on for the euro because
dollar is bullish we're focusing on the
previous day's low and that's where it's
going to be aiming for to it and through
it that's how you think about it mines
bearish back to the euro dollar every
single trading day opens creates a small
little tail power three Judas swing
sell it down close reach for the
previous day's low next day opens false
rally g2 swing sell it reach for the
previous day's low does it next day
opens rallies false rally Judas swing
sell it fade it reach for the previous
day's low boom handled next day open
small little tail trades lower comes
back off of the low okay but we're still
targeting here okay we're still reaching
for that next day well this is gonna be
Sunday so here's a Monday trading range
it opens rallies up because the short
term over vault scenario comes off the
highs that is a potential reversal
scenario the next day same same skit
we're looking for what to market to open
trade below the previous day's low and
then ultimately fit trades through that
forget Sunday go to Friday it trades
through Friday's range and then
ultimately reach for this low here so
we're looking for that scenario here
potentially to trade through this low
still is there and so the daily bias
today on December 12 2017 should be a
move lower below this low using what I'm
teaching you here okay so hopefully this
has been insightful to you guys it gives
you a little bit more framework to work
with in obviously there's so many things
that we can build on to build bias and
inter market relationships as well but I
try to incorporate the application of
the dollar index analysis and also to
justify what we would view in terms of
foreign currencies bullish or bearish
news as well and using daily bias
okay folks hopefully you enjoyed this
presentation if you like this
presentation you want to find more you
can visit my website at B inner circle
trader.com